All righty. We are on our way up through
the West Wing, past the press
secretary's office, past the uh cabinet
room,
>> sitting under a great portrait of George
Washington in his younger days.
>> Come on, guys.
>> You ready for us?
>> Come on inside.
>> From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is the Daily.
>> How are you?
>> Good. Good to see you, Mr. President.
Did you see that? Just came out.
>> Number one on Tik Tok. Trump.
>> All right.
>> I'm a little older than the average age
on Tik Tok.
>> On Wednesday [music] night, in the
middle of a defining moment for
President Trump's second term.
>> Well, thank you, Mr. President, for
seeing us. You know, everybody,
>> I do. I do. You
>> Katie Rogers.
>> Hi, Katie.
>> And of course, Tyler.
>> Nice to see you.
>> Four White House reporters from the
Times sat down [music] with him for an
extended interview in the Oval Office.
Did you see my various truths today?
They were sort of
>> they were sort of sparkling sparkling
>> today. One [music] of them, David
Sanger, walks us through their
conversation.
It's Friday, January 9th.
So, David, four New York Times reporters
walk into the Oval Office. What could
possibly go wrong?
>> Sounds like a the setup to a punch line.
Tell us about this experience.
>> Well, the president's second term is
about to hit its one-year mark. And I
think it's a considerable understatement
for anybody who's been listening to the
Daily or reading the Times to say that
this is truly one of the most pivotal
moments in modern American history.
>> Mhm.
>> Trump has just executed his most
audacious overseas intervention.
I've been talking to him for a couple of
weeks about sitting down for a full on
thereord New York Times interview. As
you know, the relationship between
President Trump and the New York Times
has been occasionally slightly fraught.
>> Yeah. And latigious.
>> And latigious.
>> He sued us over the past few months
>> only for $15 billion. But in the end, he
very happily agreed to it. And we were
told that the moment would be 5:00 p.m.
on Wednesday night.
>> Mhm.
>> And we actually thought that was a good
piece of timing cuz we figured we would
probably be his last appointment of the
day. Right.
>> And anybody who has dealt with Donald
Trump, and I've dealt with him for a few
years, knows that if you're the last
appointment of the day, you're likely to
be sticking around for a while.
>> Mhm.
>> We didn't leave the White House till
after 9:00 p.m.
>> Right. You got a meaningful chunk of his
time.
>> We did. Interrupted some by a few side
moments, including the president wanting
to show us some of his architectural
plans and visit what he's done up in the
residence and so forth. But a good oh
just shy of two hours of it was an
actual deep probing conversation about
this past year, foreign and domestic
issues. And our goal, Michael, was to
try to do something deeper and hopefully
more revealing
than what the president does every day
when he stands up briefly in front of
reporters on Air Force One or does a
gaggle, as they call it, around the
Resolute Desk. And readers and listeners
are going to have to determine if you
succeeded.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Well, to that point, walk us
through the interview.
Sit down, please.
>> So, we settled in, sat down, arrayed
around the Resolute desk. It was me and
Tyler Pager, Zolan Cano Young's, and
Katie Rogers.
>> Mhm.
>> Marco, why don't you join us for a
couple of minutes? Is that okay?
>> Already inside the Oval Office was
Secretary of State Marco Rubio. We were
about to learn why. And right away,
Michael, we had to sort through a few
logistics. So we have an understand this
is only used for your reporting.
>> So this is what we wanted to ask you
about. I think in two different
interviews in the first term we used the
audio to go on the daily and the first
thing we had to go do was negotiate that
we could actually use this recording for
the daily.
>> Right. Thank you. Because without that
negotiation we don't have this episode.
>> Anything for the daily. Michael,
>> let's leave it for a little while. Fine.
For a little while. We'll see how it
goes. And we were just a few minutes
into the conversation.
>> Is he on the phone? So, can you turn
that off for a second?
>> When an aid came in and handed the
president a note.
>> He's about to have a a call with
President Petro. And this call is off
the record.
>> Okay. Saying the president of Colombia
was on the phone, the country, not the
university.
>> That's right.
>> Can you turn them off? You give me a
word.
>> Yeah. Off. And what did that mean to you
knowing that the president of Colombia
was calling him in this moment?
>> The first thing that came to mind was,
"Oh, we have to get up and walk out."
But just as I was getting up to go do
that, the president waved at me just
like, "No, David, please stay." Right?
And the second thing that I thought was
if the president of Colombia is calling,
it's because he's worried about the fact
that President Trump said just the other
day he better watch his ass because he
could be next.
>> After Nicholas Maduro's ouster, he could
be next to be ousted.
>> That's right. And at just that moment,
JD Vance came in and settled in next to
Marco Rubio to listen to the
conversation.
>> Got it. Now, the conversation itself was
off the record, but it turned out that
some of our colleagues down in Colombia
had just sat down with President Pro.
So, we had New York Times reporters at
both ends of this conversation. They had
left before the call happened, but Petro
was very clear with them. He said, "This
is a scary moment for Colombia. This is
Donald Trump. We could well get the
Venezuela treatment."
>> So, presumably, he's calling to beseech
President Trump to treat him kindly.
>> That's exactly right.
>> Got it.
>> So, the call ends.
>> Okay, let's go.
>> We turn our recorders back on.
>> I hope that was interesting. Was that
interesting to you?
>> Very interesting. And that began a
really wide-ranging conversation. And in
the first part, not surprisingly, we
spent a lot of time on foreign policy.
>> Great. So, let me tell you where we want
to start. Um, your decision to capture
Maduro and declare that the US was in
charge for the foreseeable future, I
think, raised a question of whether you
believe, as your aid, Steven Miller, put
it so clearly the other night, that
international nicities are gone. That
countries operate by strength. He I
think he said, "Govern by strength,
government by force, governed by power."
And I think that left a lot of people
wondering whether you believe you have
the right as the world's largest
superpower to go in and extinguish any
threat or seize any resource you think
is in the US interest particularly in
the Western Hemisphere. If there's a
threat, you use the word threat, you
certainly would have the right, any
country would have the right to do that.
Uh without the threat, much less so. And
frankly, I do believe in the nicities. I
get along with a lot of people. I get
along with
>> for most presidents, military power is
the very last resort after everything
else, every form of diplomacy
has failed you.
So, I wanted to get the president
focused on the question of what criteria
he uses to exercise the most extreme and
deadly form of American power, which is
the military.
but also try to figure out how much of a
motivation in Venezuela was the fact
that it's sitting on the world's largest
reserves of oil. You've gone in in part
to get a resource which you just
declared today.
>> Well, I got in I I got in for numerous
reasons. Number one, the drugs are
pouring into the country. You know that.
Number two, the people are pouring into
the country were. except now we have a
100% strong border.
>> That all this talk about a threat from
drugs, from criminals and all that might
be secondary to his true motivation
here.
>> No, the oil happened to be there.
>> Don't forget the oil will take a while,
but we have it set. Although we did get,
you know, many barrels of oil today as
you probably know.
>> Uh and uh that's fine, but we didn't do
that. We didn't even know about the all
of the oil that was being stored there.
>> So supposing you're Xi Jinping and
you've watched the events of the past
>> few days.
>> And I wanted him to talk a little bit
about the long-term implications of
this, the precedent it sets. You may
also be thinking that if you're Xi that
you could use the same logic to
decapitate and control Taiwan or why
couldn't Putin use that argument, same
argument, it's a threat to grab the rest
of Ukraine or go beyond into other
former Soviet states. In other words,
have you created a precedent that you
may come to regret later on?
>> No, because this is this was a real
threat. You didn't have people pouring
into China. You didn't have drugs
pouring into China. You didn't have all
of the
>> that what happens if you're Xi Jinping
and you're watching this thinking, boy,
this is useful when I'm justifying going
after Taiwan.
>> The president engaged on this, but I'm
not sure he'd given it a huge amount of
thought before we started discussing it.
>> And uh that's up to him what he's going
to be doing, but you know, I've
expressed to him that I would be very
unhappy if he did that.
And at some point, Tyler Pager jumped
back in to bring the topic back to the
central question of Venezuela.
>> How long do you think you'll be running
Venezuela?
>> Only time will tell.
>> Like 3 months, 6 months, a year longer.
>> I would say much longer than that.
>> Much longer. And we have to rebuild.
>> You have to rebuild the country. And we
will rebuild it in a very profitable
way.
>> We're going to be uh using oil and we're
going to be taking oil. We're getting
oil prices down and we're going to be
giving u money to Venezuela which they
desperately need. We're going to be
helping.
>> One of the things that we all really
wanted to know was what would it take
for the president to actually send
American forces back on the ground in
Venezuela?
>> On the importance of the military, what
would trigger a decision to send ground
troops into Venezuela?
Uh, I wouldn't want to tell you that
because, you know, I can't I can't give
up information like that to a reporter
as good as you may be. I just can't talk
about that. There's a possibility I
would do that. Absolutely. you know, a
second
>> because the US has really never tried an
experiment like the one that we're
seeing play out now, which is a kind of
virtual or remote control occupation,
>> right?
>> Running a foreign country kind of by
phone
>> or by having an armada floating just
offshore.
>> Would you do it if you couldn't get at
the oil? Would you do it if they didn't
kick out the Chinese and Russian?
>> I can't tell you that. Uh I really
wouldn't want to tell you that, but
they're treating us with great respect.
As you know, we're getting along very
well with the administration that is
there right now. Uh they're giving us
everything that we feel is necessary.
>> But President Trump insisted to us that
right now he's getting from the
Venezuelan government, which is
essentially all filled with Maduro's
appointees.
Everything that he wants, and most of
what he wants is access to the oil.
Given what has happened in Venezuela,
the threats against Colombia, the
discussions about taking Greenland,
buying Greenland, however you're framing
this right now, is there anything that
you think can constrain your power on
the world stage if you believe that
something is against national security?
Do you see any checks on your power on
the world stage? Is there anything that
could stop you if you wanted to?
>> Yeah, there's one thing. My own
morality,
my own mind. That's the only thing that
can stop international law. And that's
very good.
>> I don't need international law. I'm not
looking to hurt people. I'm not looking
to kill people. I've ended, remember
this, I've ended eight wars. Nobody else
has ever done that. I've ended eight
wars and didn't get the Nobel Peace
Prize. Pretty amazing. Obama got it. He
was there for a few weeks and he got it.
He didn't even know why he got it. They
they asked him why did he get it. He was
unable to answer the question. I ended
eight wars. I if you look at those wars,
these were tough wars to end too. And
let me tell you, India and Pakistan were
going at it as you know, they were going
at it. But but that was one of eight,
but we ended eight strong wars, some
going on for more than 30 years.
>> But do you feel your administration
needs to abide by international law on
the global stage?
>> Yeah, I I do. I you know, I do. But it
it depends what your definition of
international law is. But the answer is
I do. But we have to keep the United
States safe. We have to keep parts of
the world safe that we feel responsible
for. NATO is not feared by Russia or
China at all. Not even a little bit.
We're tremendously. David, I found this
exchange that the president had with
Katie Rogers really fascinating because
he is saying that at a moment when he is
exercising power arguably as never
before
that international law is not much of a
constraint on him. The only constraint
really is his personal judgment. And he
goes on to say that he thinks that
situation, him exercising American
[snorts] power kind of at his whim is
what instills in our foes and even in
our allies like NATO the respect and
fear required to operate in this world.
I think this is one of the most
fascinating windows into the way
President Trump thinks because as you
just heard there, he views the only
check on his power to be his own moral
compass.
>> Mhm.
>> And that outside institutions, whether
they're the UN or an international
treaty,
>> only means what he interprets it to
mean. Mhm.
>> And that tells you that he wants to
operate as a leader with fundamentally
no check at all because he thinks he's a
good person and therefore the world can
rely on
>> his good judgments,
>> his good judgment and his good heart.
>> And so we thought we'd sort of stress
test that by turning to Greenland.
>> Can I circle back to what you had said
about NATO? If you had to choose between
obtaining Greenland and preserving NATO,
what's your higher priority there?
>> Well, I don't want to say that to you,
but it may be a choice. You have to
understand Russia is not at all
concerned with NATO other than us. China
is not at all concerned with NATO other
than us because sadly, you know, Europe
is becoming a much different place. And
they really do have to shape up. I want
them to shape up. I think we'll always
get along with Europe. But
>> what he's essentially saying is the US
holds all the cards, has all the power,
and NATO's not going to have a choice
because there is no NATO without the
United States. And therefore, if the
price of keeping the alliance together
>> is handing the US the right to control
Greenland, they're going to do it
because they don't have another choice.
Are you prepared to send troops to
Greenland if they do not give over the
territory?
>> Well, we already have troops in
>> more troops to militarily take over.
>> I mean, we take over. We have, you know,
good section of troops and I've had
troops there and and I've, you know,
upped it.
>> I was there this summer and you could
send as many troops as you want. And you
haven't done it. How come?
>> Because I want to do it properly.
>> And properly means own it. really it is
to me it's ownership. Ownership is very
important. You know
>> why is ownership important here?
>> Because that's what I feel is
psychologically needed for success. I
think that ownership gives you a thing
that you can't do whether you're talking
about a lease or a treaty. Uh ownership
gives you things and elements that you
can't get from just signing a document
that you can have a important to you or
to
>> psychologically important for me. Now,
maybe another president would feel
differently, but so far I've been right
about everything.
>> And you would use military force to get
that.
>> I didn't say that. You said that.
>> I'm asking you, would you?
>> Yeah. I wouldn't comment on that. It's I
don't think it'll be necessary.
>> And can you just explain what he means
by that? The psychological
value of owning Greenland, not just
controlling it, not just having a lot of
influence over it, but owning it. The
way I read it was, "Hey, I spent my life
as a real estate developer and I know
that you have way more control if you
own than if you lease."
>> But that also means I fundamentally
don't believe in relying on alliances.
and the fact that Denmark, a member of
NATO,
>> a member of NATO, which basically
controls and protects Greenland, it's
not enough for him to have an ally
that he's got to do it himself. Now, you
got to ask yourself, where does that
logic end,
>> right? Does it end with China taking
over Taiwan? Does it end with Russia
taking over Ukraine?
>> Does it end with the United States
demanding that doesn't stop at
Greenland? Maybe we need Iceland as
well. So David, based on how the
president talked about the use of
American power overseas and especially
the use of American military power
overseas,
what were you left thinking by the end
of this part of the interview? I was
left thinking that the president feels
himself unconstrained by law,
convention, or the systems that the
United States itself built at the end of
World War II after the world had gone
through two horrific
>> NATO and the entire system of
international law.
>> That's right. But at the same time that
he's not a wararmonger, right? He
actually does want that peace prize. He
does want to be known as a president of
peace. And yet when he's given the
choice between long, slow, boring
diplomacy and quick action by special
operations breaking down doors,
he'll go for the special operators.
>> What you're describing is a set of
extraordinary contradictions even for
Donald Trump.
>> Absolutely. And that is what is both
maddening and fascinating
about covering the Trump presidency
because you're not going to fit this man
into some simple set of theories. He is
a bundle of contradictions.
[music]
Well, David, after the break, we are
going to turn to a similar bundle of
contradictions when it comes to domestic
affairs. We'll be right back.
[music]
on behalf of both of them. Have they got
us?
>> I want to make sure we have time for
domestic policy too. Um uh ICE did shoot
and kill an American citizen today
according to early reports.
>> David, tell us about the conversation
that the four of you had with the
president about domestic issues. Well,
Zolan kicked it off with questions about
this horrifying scene we had all just
seen play out in Minneapolis just hours
before.
>> Uh we have also seen protesters met with
violent tactics and pepper spray. In
some cases, American citizens have also
been wrongfully detained. Do any of
these incidents or tactics make you
think ICE has gone too far?
>> Well, I think that ISIS has been treated
very badly. Don't forget, I got rid of
thousands and thousands of killers,
murderers. They've gotten rid of
thousands of people that were led into
our country during the Biden
administration so stupidly. Uh they're
very they're very brave, very citizen
was shot today.
>> That's right.
>> Does this make you uncomfortable?
>> Well, I Everything makes me
uncomfortable. I want to see nobody get
shot. I want to see nobody screaming and
trying to run over policemen either or,
you know, law enforceed by local
officials in the
>> Well, if you take a look at the tape, I
saw the same tape that you must have
seen. I just saw it. There were several
>> there were several angles on that.
>> Well, I know. But if you take a look at
that, that was a vicious situation that
took place. And if you go before that,
and in my opinion, the the screamer,
that woman that was screaming shame,
shame, shame, that's not normal. That
was a practiced, rehearsed, professional
agitator.
>> Even so, are those appropriate policing
tactics for somebody to fire into a
vehicle like that in your mind? Is that
>> Well, they ran him over. I mean, they
ran
>> and Trump just sort of reflexively
defended the officers and claimed that
the driver had run over one of them
>> and we had all seen this video and
immediately sort of stepped in to
challenge the account
>> tried to run.
>> Video didn't look like he was he was run
over.
>> Well, I'd play the tape for you right
now. Do you want to just whip it out?
Looked to me to be very bad. I I just
put out the tape. And so Trump said,
>> "Well, let's just watch it together."
>> And to our surprise, that's exactly what
happened.
>> Have any of these have any of these
tactics made you uncomfortable? You
know, you've had citizens that have also
been wrongfully detained here?
>> Yeah, we've seen that one.
>> We've seen that video.
>> Yeah.
>> One of his aids brought over a laptop,
slowed down a a version of the tape.
>> Does not look like the ICE officer has
been run over there. And then maybe from
a different angle we would see.
>> The way I look at it.
>> Oh, sure. If you look at that,
>> it's terrible scene.
>> Yeah, we all agree on.
>> You say it's horrible to watch. You said
that on truth. So, do you think that
goes I hate to see it. It was sort of a
strange form of real time factchecking
of the president with it clear that the
president wasn't entirely comfortable
with what he was seeing on that laptop.
>> Mhm.
>> Or what these ICE agents were doing.
>> So just take a step back here because
this
>> and then from there the president sort
of turn to a a different topic about
what the real aim of the president's
immigration restrictions are and who
they're supposed to target. challenge,
but I do.
>> Your administration has also suggested
that some people who are naturalized
citizens could see their citizenship
strict. Uh, which groups do you think
should lose citizenship?
>> Well, I think Somalia is a disaster to
be honest with you. I look at what's
happening in Minnesota and you look at
this country, it's one of the worst in
the world. It's acknowledged to be truly
one of the most corrupt, one of the most
vicious, violent countries in the world.
Uh, even the ships, they go after the
ships. They don't do that anymore
because if they go after the ships, you
know what? They get hit by the same
missile that we hit the drug dealers.
>> Question is, would you strip them of
their nationality?
>> If they deserve to be stripped, I would.
Yeah.
>> So, what would the criteria you would
>> Well, we're looking at criteria right
now. But if they deserve to be stripped,
David, I'd do it in a heartbeat. Yeah.
>> You don't think that your comments about
those of Somali descent have painted a
broad brush on your own citizens?
>> I don't care. I want great people in
this country. I want people that love
the country. And I think that many of
the people that came in from Somalia
uh they hate our country. They came and
they and not only do they hate our
country, they've ripped off our country.
They've ripped it off. They've stolen
billions of dollars. It's shocking from
where they came, they had nothing. And
they come here and they steal. And it's
an embarrassment to the intelligence of
the people of Minnesota and to the
people of our country
>> in your view
>> that that they would be allowed to do
it. I I I've heard many people that say
this is generalizing in population and
find these comments.
>> You call it whatever you want.
>> I want to ask if part of your
immigration agenda is also aimed at
changing the racial makeup of this
country.
>> No, not at all.
>> Is part of this this agenda aimed at
>> I just want people that love our
country. It's very simple. I want people
that love our country. I want people
that respect our country, respect the
laws of our country. And uh I want
people that can embrace our country
>> because you've you've support all
refugees
>> that can make America great again.
>> You have a tra on the majority African.
>> And Zolan raises an interesting point.
The the only immigrants who can come in
right now are white South Africans,
right?
>> Refugees
>> the way of refugees.
>> Well, I haven't seen that. I mean, I
certainly haven't seen that. But over
the years, it's been very much the
opposite of that. Very, very much the
opposite of that. Uh people are coming
into our country. Nobody's doing it
based on race.
>> Trump is positing to you all that his
immigration restrictions are not about
race. They're not intentionally about
race when the reality is that they are
allowing for very few people of color to
enter the country. The people who are
banned
>> from entering the US right now and there
are bans on a lot of countries. They are
almost uniformly from countries where
the populations are black and brown. The
very few people he is letting in are
white. The pattern becomes difficult to
ignore. It sure does. And look, he says
he just wants people who love this
country to be allowed in. But what we're
learning is he basically only wants to
favor white South Africans as I raised
with him or the immigrants he wants the
most are those who bring special skills
that can help our economy and uh that's
a a very select group.
>> Do you think some industries still need
immigrant labor?
>> Yes.
>> Which ones?
>> They need inexpensive Well, they're
different things. We need people to come
in. Just so you understand something,
[snorts] I'm all for people coming into
our country through the border legally.
If they come in legally, I want them
more than they want me and more than
they want this country. And if you look
at my first term and if you look at this
term, I want we need people. We're
building factories all over the country
who are building. You said,
>> but I want them to come in to be
protected respectfully. I want them to
come in legally. But you said
agriculture and hotels uh that you
wanted ICE to use common sense against
them, right? I want them to use
>> Have you directed ICE to ease
deportations against those industries?
Yes. Are there other industries that
you've directed ICE?
>> Because I watch farmers and I deal with
farmers and I want 90% of the farmers,
more than that, and they're great
people. And they have great people
working for them who have been working
for them for 25 years. They're almost
like a member of the family.
>> Are there other in those people thrown
out of the country? Are there other
industries or companies that you've
directed ICE to ease deportations on?
>> No, the South Korean case
>> some some service industries uh some
I'll give you an example in Georgia with
South Korea.
>> They make batteries. Batteries are very
complex and they're very dangerous to
make and they make them and they brought
in three or 4 hundred people who
specialize in
>> them all
>> and they throw them out. And I was very
angry about it. You know why? because
they have to open a factory and you
can't take a person off the street who's
never seen a battery before and think
that they're going to make highly
complex batteries.
>> He actually invoked the ICE raid on that
Kyai plant in Georgia where they
deported a whole bunch of South Korean
workers who were there setting up a a
car battery factory.
>> You have to allow them to bring some of
their experts with them or they're never
going to be able to open their plant. It
sounds like you were angry at at ICE for
this raid on the Hyundai facility.
>> I was not happy about it. Nope. I was
not happy about it. Uh they're making
batteries. Batteries are very dangerous
and actually very complex and they
brought people that make batteries and
those people would have trained our
people how to make batteries and at some
point they would have gone back because
they want to go back to their country.
They might not. So, in Trump's telling
here, and I was struck by this, that a
fair number of American workers just may
not be qualified to do the kind of
highly technical manufacturing that he's
prioritizing right now, something like,
you know, car batteries. And what's
interesting about that, of course, is,
you know, President Trump runs on a
message of remembering forgotten
America, the bluecollar workingass
Americans, you know, many of whom used
to be in the manufacturing sector who
need jobs now in the new economy. And
he's kind of saying, let's be honest, a
lot of those people, they can't do this
work.
>> Well, I think what he's saying is they
certainly can't do it at the beginning.
You can't just
>> immigrants can.
>> That's right. That you can't just drop a
car battery factory and expect it to be
up and running, right, without the help
of the technical workers that they need
to get it up and running and the
American workers aren't going to catch
on until that happens.
>> To be honest, I'd love to be able to
create an immigration policy that works
for everyone.
>> You like a comprehensive immigration
reform?
>> I would love to do it if it was
possible.
>> Is Congress willing to go do that?
George Bush tried.
>> If the Democrats would do it, I'd do it.
I'd love to have a comprehensive uh
immigration policy, something that
really worked. It's about time for the
country to have
>> What would that look like?
>> Excuse me.
>> What would a comprehensive
>> I don't want to go into that because
it's a very
uh it's a very ticklish subject, but I
believe that uh there is a plan that can
work for everybody.
>> David, I wonder if you were as surprised
as I was in listening to this interview
by the president's sudden enthusiasm
for something like comprehensive
immigration reform. I'm sure you
remember this as well as I do.
Comprehensive immigration reform is a
word that if a Republican invokes, they
are in big, big trouble because it
almost always implies that you're going
to create a legal path for those here
illegally. That's the comprehensive part
of immigration reform. In the past,
President Trump has sought to kill any
form of comprehensive immigration
reform. And suddenly he's saying, "I
want this."
>> You know, Michael, to hear President
Trump come back and discuss this, I was
sitting there thinking, "How is his own
base going to go react to this?" Because
yes, the core of it is
you do find a pathway for at least some
to get to citizenship. And I'm not sure
the current Trump base is ready for
that.
>> Can we move on to the economy? I would
like to ask you about uh Republican
pollsters lately are warning that you
and the party is losing ground with
young voters, particularly young men who
are concerned with job prospects.
>> Could I have the Tik Tok uh thing?
>> But what would you say to those young
rigged polls? Look, the polls are rigged
just like the writers. But there's these
are Republican pollsters who are warning
your party that you are
>> not doing enough focus on American jobs.
>> I can't tell you. I I think I'm very
popular. This just came out from Tik
Tok.
>> It came out just recently
that Donald Trump was number one on Tik
Tok and the most popular person. So you
can have these. I don't
>> David on the economy. The president
pretty forcefully waves off the idea,
which we keep finding in poll after poll
and in election results from the last
off-year election, that voters,
including many Republican voters, are
persistently feeling anxious about the
economy and they don't think he is
focused enough on it. You know, we kept
trying to steer him back to this to try
to get him to think about the economic
anxieties of ordinary Americans.
>> Mr. President, so many voters voted for
you because of the economy. And I think
Katie just wanted to get out.
>> The economy is probably the best. It's
Look, the economy right now, I have
trillions and trillions of dollars
coming into this economy, more than any
nation has ever had by far. Our economy
is
unbelievable. And I'm bringing down the
prices. Remember this. I didn't cause
the high prices. Biden did.
>> The Wait a minute. Wait, wait, wait one
second. I inherited a mess. Listen. I
inherited a mess.
>> I inherited a highly inflated, horribly
run country. The borders were bad. The
military was bad. The Afghanistan was
the worst worst day in the history of
our country. Maybe in the I think it was
the lowest point. Do you know what that
was? The lowest point. And we may right
now be at the highest point.
>> There are good signs and the economy is
growing. Wages are keeping up with
inflation. But there are other
indicators that people are are hurting.
High earners. 10% of high earners make
half of the economy grow.
>> I'm bringing they're hurting because of
Biden. I'm bringing
>> No, high earners are not hurting. It's
the low earners. It's the middle
earners. It's the people that you
promise to help. What do you say to If
you look at my achievements, the
greatest uh percentage-wise,
the greatest beneficiaries of my economy
in my first term were lowincome workers.
And it's turning out to be right now
blue collar workers are doing better
than anybody else percentage- wise as
they measure that. Uh I inherited a
mess. It was high prices. It was high
inflation. It was high crime. You know,
did you see where murders are the lowest
they've ever been? Did you see where
crime is at the lowest point it's ever
been? Do you know why? Because they
closed the border and we don't have
criminals pouring into our country.
>> Mr. President, do you
a few more on the economy? Do you think
um are you basically telling Americans
that they have to wait a little bit
longer, particularly low and middle
income Americans?
>> No, it doesn't. I can't fix what they
destroyed in four years immediately. But
if you look at it, I have more
investment income coming in than any
president than any country has ever had.
What I've done,
>> I mean, it felt in these exchanges that
this concept of the president as
insulated from the American economic
challenges of this moment was very
vividly on display. And you don't sense
that he is empathetic to those who are
worried about the economy. In fact, he
kind of disputes the premise that there
is anything wrong with the economy.
>> That's right. Or that new technology
like artificial intelligence
would bring about more economic anxiety.
>> Mr. President, just on AI, there are
many Americans who are concerned that AI
is going to
>> uh AI is going to take their jobs and
they will not will be out of work. I
think just the opposite. I think AI is
going to be a tremendous job producer. I
think that we have so many jobs. My
biggest problem isn't taking the jobs,
it's that we don't have enough people to
fill the jobs
and that's where robots come in. And so
I I think you've got to come to your own
conclusion about whether or not there's
anything in this interview that would
make an ordinary American feel better
about supermarket prices or tightening
job market or the anxieties that come
from the arrival of a new and somewhat
terrifying new technology that's going
to have effects that none of us can
predict. So David, how does this
interview ultimately come to an end?
>> Well, the president had stuff he wanted
us to see.
>> These are two personnel actions that
Scavino's team asked the president to
>> Oh, I'll sign it in two seconds.
>> Sorry, sir.
>> This is a much more important thing to
do. So, this is the ballroom right here.
It's beautiful. People love it.
>> And after nearly two hours of
conversation, he got up, started
pointing out paintings he had dug out of
the vault of the White House and hung.
>> Oh, get the get me the model real fast.
talked about his plans for the White
House complex.
All a reminder that while he is taking
out the leader of Venezuela and
threatening to re-engage with the
Iranians
and denying that there's any reason for
people to be anxious about the economy.
>> As an example, have you seen the white
marble floor there?
>> No.
>> Well, I'm going back up. So, if you
want, you could follow me. Yeah, that'
be okay.
>> Well, let me just finish this. So,
>> he's also busy thinking about rebuilding
the White House.
>> Sir, do you want to show them the
renovation?
>> Yeah, let's go. Come on. That we had
enough. Nice setup, right, Katie? Good.
Two hours, Katie. I could go nine hours.
>> We're going to continue.
>> Sir, can I get two signatures?
>> You know, I did a uh a treadmill with
the military.
>> Well, David, thank you very much for
walking us through this fascinating
conversation with the president. When we
come back, we're going to ask that all
four of you who conducted this interview
sit down together and briefly reflect on
the conversation and what you all took
from it. So, we'll be right back.
[music]
So, Tyler, Katie, Zolan, David just
walked us through the highlights of the
interview that the four of you did with
him because this went on for so long.
There's inevitably a lot of material
that we couldn't cover. So, I want to
begin by just asking each of you, what's
one thing he said that we probably
didn't cover with David that's really
going to stick with you when you reflect
back on this interview, Katie? I think
it's the degree to which the president
throughout this interview really wanted
credit and he wanted gestures of
goodwill from people he wanted respect
from be it Democrats, Republicans,
members of the news media, the American
public. And one of the ways I felt that
that was manifesting during this whole
encounter was he's building a ballroom
where the East Wing used to be big
enough to host an inauguration inside
for future presidents.
>> And he kept going back to this idea that
he's a builder. He mentioned that maybe
he was a better builder than he ever has
been at politics. And at one point he
summons a military aid to bring in an
architectural rendering with miniature
models of the ballroom and is sort of
almost telling us and himself that
building being built over there. They'll
be thanking me as if this is the project
that will do it. That will give him this
credit that he has been seeking in this
term, his last term, and throughout his
time in public life.
Zolan, what about you?
>> Katie made the good point of how the
president is so motivated by whether or
not he's getting credit. And it's not
just about whether he's getting credit
now, but it seems he's also motivated by
whether or not he got credit in the
first term. And he did not seem bothered
at all when we asked him about his
relatives and the business deals and the
money that they've made across the world
throughout his second term. When we
pressed him on this, he was saying,
well, in his view, his family showed
restraint in the first term and he
didn't get credit.
>> Showed restraint in terms of what he was
willing to do in the name of making his
family money.
>> That's right. And thus now in this term,
he said that he was pretty much
unbothered about the business deals that
his family has been able to pursue. All
this, I think, speaks to a president
who's so much more emboldened in this
second term. And I think we saw up close
and personal just how emboldened he is.
>> Tyler,
>> one thing that I think stood out to me,
Michael, is a conversation we had about
anti-semitism because it's become such a
flash point within the Republican party
as we see this intraparty warfare over
whether or not there is space in the
Republican party and the broader Make
America Great Again movement for people
who espouse anti-semitic views,
>> influencers,
>> right? And JD Vance, his vice president,
said basically that as long as you love
America, you're welcome. And he didn't
want to institute purity,
>> even if you're anti-semitic.
>> Right? And I asked President Trump
whether or not there was room in his
movement for people with anti-semitic
views. And he said, "No, I don't think
we need them. I don't think we like
them." And that puts him at odds with
leading Republican figures, including
his vice president, who seemed more open
to including people who spread hateful
views within the party.
>> It was a moment where he really came out
quite strongly against people who spread
anti-semitism when this debate is
coursing through his movement and among
his supporters,
>> right? He's drawing a pretty bright red
line there. So, one last question for
each of you. What is your ultimate
takeaway from this conversation?
For me, there were moments in this
interview where it almost seemed like
the president was a bystander to his own
policies, to his own agenda. There were
times where he would speak, for example,
about an interest in comprehensive
immigration reform and a potential
pathway to citizenship.
>> Well, he has also directed his aids to
go pursue mass deportations. And you
know, he talked about, well, ICE needs
to be careful around certain industries.
>> You run ICE.
>> Yeah, you run ICE. And also Steven
Miller works for you. Steven Miller has
been clear about pursuing mass
deportations as well. So it was that
distance he almost seemed to sort of try
to create between himself and in some of
the actions that his administration is
taking.
>> Yeah, that is fascinating. Katie, what
about you?
My major takeaway from this is that
there are many faces to President Trump
and even throughout that interview. It
was a real exercise in wrangling those
different personas because he was
combative. He was upbeat at times. He
was very almost docel when we were
asking him probing questions about his
health. And so instead of being the
President Trump who has called reporters
sedicious for asking questions about his
health,
>> he allowed Tyler to ask him if he'd ever
taken a GLP1 medication before. He said
no.
>> Quick interjection. Oh yeah. What did he
say?
>> He said he had not, but he probably
should.
>> David asked him if he was on any blood
thinners besides aspirin. The answer was
no.
>> Yeah. Very personal questions. I asked
him if he had ever had a heart attack.
These are questions
>> no.
>> The answer was no. But the point is this
was a different version of him and you
never know which version of him you are
going to get and he knows that. He knows
that if a foreign leader calls him that
person does not know who is on the other
end of the line.
>> Which persona?
>> Yes. And that means that this president
can dangle consequences can show up as
magnanimous. he can show up as
threatening. I think that is my main
takeaway going forward.
>> Fascinating. David, you know, all
presidents in their second term turn
more to foreign policy, not only because
they've got greater leverage and greater
freedom, but because they want to
establish a legacy. And I think the
first thing I took away from it is this
is somebody who thinks about building a
foreign policy legacy and building
buildings. The second thing that really
jumped out at me was that
he was spending this time with the New
York Times because he really wants an
approval for this new vision of a
muscular America.
And I think he was making what he
thought was a significant investment in
trying to explain a new approach to
managing the globe. Tyler,
>> what was remarkable to me as we were in
there for quite some time was just
watching how the Oval Office operated
and the bubble around the president to
support all of his needs. Whether that's
him pressing the red button on his desk
to get a Diet Coke or the aid that runs
out multiple times of the Oval Office to
pick up different pieces of paper that
he has requested she print out as
evidence for whatever point he's making
or just the people walking in and out of
the Oval Office with notes, whether
that's a foreign leader on the call or
an aid is waiting outside to him
combining meetings. There were documents
he had to sign and he just had that
person come in with the paperwork as we
were sitting there for the interview.
His phone, his personal cell phone was
ringing multiple times. He took one call
from the Fox News anchor Brett Bear. But
it was really just quite amazing to see
how
chaotic, frankly, [music] the Oval
Office can be. And we've reported on how
this unfolds, but I think sitting in the
Oval Office for an extended period of
time and watching it up close really
gives you the sense of how Trump makes
decisions, how he thinks, and how his
world [music] operates.
[music]
>> Well, to all four of you, thank you very
much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Michael.
Here's
[music]
what else you need [music] to know
today.
>> The A's are 52, the NAS are 47. The
motion is agreed to. [music]
The joint resolution will be placed on
the calendar. On Thursday, a bipartisan
group of senators voted to advance a
resolution that would force President
Trump to seek congressional
authorization for continued military
operations in Venezuela.
Five Republican senators joined all
Democrats in backing the resolution. One
of them, Republican Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky, said that one factor behind
his vote was Trump's suggestion made in
his interview with the Times that the
United States might remain involved in
Venezuela for years.
And in Minnesota, local authorities are
accusing the federal government of
blocking them from investigating why an
ICE [music] agent killed a 37year-old
woman in her car. The accusation came as
federal immigration agents in Portland,
Oregon, shot two people in their car
[music] on Thursday, apparently under
similar circumstances.
Federal officials accused the two people
in Oregon of weaponizing their car
against [music] the agents.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Asta Chhaturvveni, Stella Tan, and Mary
Wilson. It was edited by Rachel Quester
with help from [music] Paige Cowed.
Contains music by Rowan Misto and Dan
Powell and was engineered by Chris
[music] Wood. Special thanks to Aphim
Shapiro.
>> [music]
[music]
>> That's it for the daily. I'm Michael
Boro. See you on Monday.